So, let's talk about what we've been building up to now.
We know how to construct a KD tree.
We know how to search for points in it.
Now we have everything we need to actually build Euclidean clustering.
Now we're actually going to find clusters in our point data.
Now here is the pseudo-code for doing Euclidean clustering using our KD tree.
So let's put the KD tree to use and do some clustering with it.
So here's the idea.
In pseudo-code, here's our Euclidean cluster function,
over here on the right,
and we have this list of clusters and it's initialized as being empty.
So let's iterate through each point in our point cloud.
So in our 2D example we had 11 points,
we're going to iterate through each of those points,
and we're going to keep track if they'd been processed or not.
So, iterating through these points,
if the point has not been processed,
it hasn't been looked at,
then we're going to go ahead and create a brand new cluster,
and this cluster is represented by a list of ints.
It's a list of Point IDs.
Then we're going to go ahead and call this proximity function.
It's recursive and it's going to take in
that point so that point that we're iterating
through that hasn't been processed in this brand new cluster,
and basically it's job is to build this cluster.
We're passing in cluster as a reference,
so at the end of the day,
when it's exhausted itself,
we are going to be left with this cluster that has
all these nearby points that we're just going to go ahead
and add it to our list of clusters.
So, going to go ahead and add it to our list of clusters and
then what we can do after we've iterated through all these points,
we create these clusters,
we've added these clusters to a list of clusters,
we just return the clusters.
So here, let's check out the innermost part of this,
this recursive method proximity.
What's it doing? Well, it's building the cluster, and this is how it works.
So it takes in a point in that cluster that it's building in,
once again if the point has not been processed,
then we're going to mark the point as processed.
So that's when it actually gets checked off the list,
and we're going to add that point to the cluster,
and then we're going to see what nearby points
there are to that point that we just added to the cluster,
so we use our KD tree to do that.
We just call that search method that we've just implemented.
So you call search on that point and that's going to give you, "hey,
here's some nearby points," that are within that distance tolerance,
and then you iterate through each of those nearby points
and you call proximity again on that nearby point,
and that cluster that you're building.
So that's going to keep going and it's going to create
this cluster until all of these points in proximity had been processed,
and then you're left with this cluster of nearby points,
and that we're adding later over here.
Then this is going to go and keep going until we've done
all the points in our point cloud and all the points have been processed,
and now you have your collection of clusters.
So, here's the results of running that.
Here we are identifying these three clusters in
our 2D data and these clusters are all within some distance,
these points are all within some distance tolerance,
that's how they're a part of this cluster.
So we have this red group,
we have this green group, and we have this blue group.
In order to get these same visual results,
you'll be implementing the Euclidean clustering function now,
and in the cluster that CPP code.